All right, well, this is the portion
where we are going to ask a manager,
I don't have all the advice and
I love to lean on peers to help me think
about it maybe a little bit differently.
So we're gonna be talking on the topic
of performance, management, and
measuring performance.
So I'm going to lean on Jem Young to
help me, a seasoned manager and peer.
Jem, I have a couple of questions for
you that I'd love to kind of
hear how you approach them.
So what did you found useful to
know that your team is performing,
they're doing the right things?
How do you get signals
into that with your team?
>> Yeah,
my view is may be a little different.
I found it useful to know
I can see how my team is
performing if they point out problems.
I totally don't mind complaining,
I complain all the time.
I believe in the power of venting
to make yourself feel better, but
they also bring solutions too.
So like, man, this thing sucks,
here's what I think we should do about it.
And I see that cycle starting to build up,
where people start solving their own
problems and they bring those to the team.
That means the teams are performing cuz
they're spending their time on the right
things.
That's a really strong signal for me.
Another one is in terms of performance.
If people are giving me feedback, and
they feel comfortable like, hey, Jem,
what about this process here?
I think, maybe we shouldn't do
stand up this time in the morning.
Or maybe we shouldn't have this meeting
cuz prople aren't really even in
the office at this point.
And people feel comfortable doing that,
and looking at the team as a whole.
I feel good about the team performance,
because it means our culture is really
healthy and
they feel comfortable doing that.
>> I love that there,
helping you do your job better too.
It's like I saw this point
that maybe you didn't see.
>> Another one is, it's kind of on the
measurement side, but it's a little bit
different on, so we use OKRs on the team,
they're still fairly new.
But one thing I've found is I say,
here's some objectives,
what are other objectives?
And the team can come together and
create their own objectives, and
they agree on that.
Says a lot about the team health and
culture and
performance where they're like, okay,
we agree these are obvious problems.
And then they write their own key results
and their own timelines and milestones and
things like that.
I don't have to do that.
That says, they own these areas which
make me comfortable in these areas.
And that frees me up for
it to do other things.
But more importantly, if they don't hit
those targets that they set, then we can
have a conversation, not in any blameless
way or in a totally blameless way.
But you're the one setting these targets,
let's figure out what's going on and
what we can fix.
And it's more collaborative at that point,
and it's not me dictating,
it's not them dictating, it's just we're
coming together and figuring this out.
If we can do all that and the team's
functioning, that means they're performing
really well, and I'm free to focus
on other aspects of the role.
>> Yeah, I think in those ways too, you're
helping them feel more engaged too, right?
Which's feeling engaged with the work and
not just, well,
my manager told me to do it,
that's a huge difference, right?
And feeling like you can
own some of those outcomes,
and that can be really helpful.
I love what you said too, like people
bringing problems to you, I love that.
And I'm actually comfortable
with even the venting.
I appreciate when someone has suggestions,
or possible solutions, and
they're looking for my advice on them.
But sometimes it can be just like,
Ryan, I'm just frustrated.
I'm so frustrated with this process that
we're doing, I don't have an answer, but
it's not working.
Can we talk about it?
And then, the two of us can have
a bit of a conversation around that.
And maybe I'm unaware of
some of those things.
So I'd really love that too,
because having that open dialogue and
having people feel comfortable to
have that conversation is huge.
That's what you want, because they have
a different vantage point than you do as
a manager, and you want them
bringing up some of those points.
>> I like your sort of engagement,
I don't think we even brought that up.
But yeah, if the team's engaged and
people are engaged,
that says a lot about how
well they're performing, and
how well they're not stressed
about things necessarily.
Or if they are, they're engaged
enough to bring that to you and
bring that to the team.
And between engagement and something like
OKRs that they've set themselves, it's
really not that hard to measure at that
point if your team's performing or not.
There's always the part on how
are your partners viewing the team and
things like that.
But that's my job as a manager
to kind of go out and do that.
That's not at a team level.
But I think people make seeing if my teams
are forming well probably too complicated.
A lot of it you can
just feel as a manager.
Just like if you're driving down the
street and your car's not running right,
you can feel it.
You can always say, it's this way,
that you just know something is off.
And that, to me,
is kind of the instinct of a good leader,
is you can just feel when things are going
well, you can feel when things are not.
>> Yeah, those gut signals,
it kind of give you a signal that I
need to dig in a little bit here.
I think another thing that you mentioned
too that I really liked was almost,
I'll kind of frame it a little
bit different way, but
you're allowing your team to decide what
metrics are important for those OKRs and
really show up to speak to the work,
is, yes, they're engaged.
But then, also demonstrates their
depth of knowledge in the space too.
I think that's really helpful,
because having a high performing
team is they understand it,
they understand the details deeper than
you do in some areas, and they should.
So I think that's a really good call out,
and I really liked that one as well.
>> And also, I guess another lens is how
autonomously is everybody operating?
Do they need to ask for feedback and
advice all the time, or
is it they only bring the critical stuff?
That says a lot about kind of
the experience of the team.
When they're asking me questions, the type
of questions they're asking says a lot
about how engaged they are,
how engaged other people are.
But I really like the autonomous
working mode, but
coming back together at
the right intervals.
>> Yeah, and they probably feel
comfortable to make calls on
their own too.
They're not like, Jem,
can I get your permission to do this?
It's like, no, yeah,
I feel like this is the right call.
I might get input on it, but
I'm gonna push that and make that call.
I like that.
What are things that you've maybe found?
Maybe you've tried something for measuring
performance, or paid attention to
something, or you've seen something so
egregious that you're like,
I would never ever use that as
a metric for performance already.
Did I cover them all, or
did any come to your top of mind?
>> Lines of code is such a bad pattern.
>> Yeah.
>> There's things that are really,
really complex.
Especially, I work in the platform space
where a lot of times we don't know what
the problem is, or we don't know how
complicated it is, because we're looking
at other people's code that they
built on top of the platform.
So things like a refactor,
I couldn't say like, hey,
here's a target for
getting this refactor done.
Get it done in this time frame,
because we don't know what it'll take.
Maybe it'll be short, maybe it'll be long.
So I think measuring hard metrics or
lines of code, or
did you get this thing done
on this specific time frame,
it can often be a bad sign of performance
that people tend to lean into.
And I think, I mean, I don't wanna
criticize other managers, but I will,
it's easier.
Just look at, hey, we'll close a lot
of pull requests, but Emily didn't.
And like a sheer of numbers are really
easy to point to because it's kind of
a lazy way of doing things, but
it doesn't tell a bigger story.
And I see that way too often, of people
trying to measure in terms of hard
numbers, without digging in and being
like, actually, they changed one line of
code, and it was brilliant because it
actually solved this other problem.
But it took them maybe a week of research
to figure out this is just the one thing
we need to change.
And that's where being the engineering
part of the management comes in.
But I think if you lean too
much on the people side and
not enough from the engineering and
understanding what your team is doing,
you just rely on pure numbers,
which is just incorrect.
>> Yeah, there's so much nuance to
everything that's being done that you
really have to kind of understand,
like that you call that out for
the lines of code.
I also wanna celebrate deleted code.
It's like, yeah,
we don't need more complexity.
You deleted lines of code,
[LAUGH] I'm almost wanna celebrate that
more than I want to count lines of code.
>> Another one is, people,
I don't know, your director or
manager or
whoever is coming in like, so and so
did such a great work and you're relying
on that as a metric of performance.
It's really good to acknowledge those type
of things, but some of your higher-ups or
even partners are only gonna see
the really highly visible projects.
And if you're only focusing on the team
members who would like to do the highly
visible projects,
you're missing all that hidden glue work.
Like documentation writing and tests
that no one sees, but it's critical for
your team to function.
So it's another one like, yes, acknowledge
it, but you can't lean on that as much.
And be like, hey, Ryan, you haven't got as
much praise from my manager in a while.
What's going on with you?
And that's just a poor way
of measuring performance.
>> I might look at that on you, Jem,
is why is the manager not
aware of the good work,
that your manager is not aware of some of
the work that's happening on your team?
That so and so has written so much solid
documentation that might go unnoticed, but
it's super impactful.
You wanna help celebrate that or
share that up to your leadership too.
So yeah, it's a good call out.
Cool, well, thank you, Jem.
>> Thanks, Ryan.